# 2019-08-31 Interface Between Process and Host

Looking at the current implementation (https://github.com/Viir/Kalmit/blob/23524fb4b7b8ba94a075dac344e40a4a47fc2d5a/implement/PersistentProcess/example-elm-apps/with-frontend-web/elm-app/src/ElmAppInKalmitProcess.elm):

What is the meaning of order between `CompleteHttpResponse` and `StartTask` entries in the response from the process when processing an event? Since it contains `Complete`, does it wait for completing data transfer to the client before continuing with the following `ProcessRequest` in the list?

By using separate properties for tasks to be started and HTTP responses to send, we could make the Elm type better communicate that there is no such dependency.

An example of such an improvement can be seen in commit https://github.com/Viir/bots/commit/faf59c8d5f24a7648c2d009949c2b440c0c06eab

Maybe a type like this?
```Elm
type alias ProcessResponse =
    { startTasks : List StartTaskStructure
    , completeHttpResponses : List { httpRequestId : String, response : HttpResponse }
    }
```
This type seems better because it does not support ordering a start task after a complete HTTP response.

But maybe we want to support being notified when an HTTP response has been completed? Did the client acknowledge receiving the response? Did the transfer fail because the client disconnected in the meantime? To support getting this information, we could expand the `TaskStructure`:
```Elm
type Task
    = CreateVolatileHost
    | RunInVolatileHost RunInVolatileHostStructure
    | ReleaseVolatileHost ReleaseVolatileHostStructure
    | CompleteHttpResponse { httpRequestId : String, response : HttpResponse }

type alias ProcessResponse =
    { startTasks : List StartTaskStructure
    }
```

Would a design as sketched above cause problems with the implementation details to reduce runtime expenses and reduce the latency of the application? To avoid inconsistencies, HTTP responses to clients should only be sent when we know that the causing events have been written to durable storage. But to improve latency and throughput, we already start processing an event before writing the event has been completed. The idea so far was not to start sending the resulting HTTP responses until the writing of the events has been completed.
Thinking about what changes with the design sketched above: Other tasks (run in volatile host) also can have effects visible to the outside world, so the same constraints as for HTTP responses apply to those. So it seems best to delay starting of each task until we have confirmation that the event which caused the task was written to storage.

There is also another reason to move the HTTP response into a task: This is closer to a more refined design where the HTTP interface is modeled in a volatile host. Such a model would remove the complexity of today's special interface to support HTTP. The `CompleteHttpResponse ` case in the sketch above would then be obsolete.

Following this approach, the interface for getting the HTTP requests could be made more symmetrical earlier to reduce migration expenses:
```Elm
type Task
    = CreateVolatileHost
    | RunInVolatileHost RunInVolatileHostStructure
    | ReleaseVolatileHost ReleaseVolatileHostStructure
    | GetNewHttpRequests
    | CompleteHttpResponse { httpRequestId : String, response : HttpResponse }

type TaskResultStructure
    = CreateVolatileHostResponse (Result CreateVolatileHostError CreateVolatileHostComplete)
    | RunInVolatileHostResponse (Result RunInVolatileHostError RunInVolatileHostComplete)
    | CompleteWithoutResult
    | GetNewHttpRequestsResult (List HttpRequestEvent)
    | CompleteHttpResponseResult (Result () ())
```
